PORTAL OF WORLDS: PLAYER'S GUIDE


SETTING

The world of Exandria from Critical Role includes the continents of Issylra, Marquet,
Tal'Dorei, and Wildemount.

Our adventure begins on the edge of the southwesterly Menagerie Coast of Wildemount, 
n a vacation paradise called Palma Flora, and its adjacent Flora Isle.

But much of the adventure will proceed to the eastern part, in a region known as Xhorhas. This
warped and wild land was the realm of evil Betrayer Gods during an era known as the Calamity,
when Gods roamed the Earth and fought for dominion.

The northern region of Xhorhas is ruled by the Kryn Dynasty. The Dynasty was founded by the
Bright Queen, a drow named Leylas Kryn, who remains in power centuries later. It has expanded
over time, bringing the monsterfolk of Xhorhas within its borders, and converting them to
worshipping an entity known as the Luxon.

The main settlements within the Dynasty are the following:

- Rosohna. The capital, Rosohna, is built upon the ruins of the former Betrayer God capital The
city is covered by magical darkness due to the drow's sunlight sensitivity.  Locals call
ir Roshanna.

- Asarius. Known as the City of Beasts, Asarius gets its nickname from being the hub for
monsterfolk civilization.

- Jigow. A coastal city, Jigow has formed from the amalgamation of orc and goblin villages.
The locals call it Jigsaw.

- Urzin. Urzin is a roving settlement built upon the backs of giant tortoises known as
horizonbacks, that traverse the marshes and lowlands of Xhorhas.

- Bazzoxan. Bazzoxan is a highly fortified settlement built upon an ancient Betrayer God temple.
The locals call it Bazz or Bazzocks.

RACES

The Kryn Dynasty is led by drow, and the majority of inhabitants of Dynasty settlements are
monsterfolk such as.  bugbears, goblins, hobgoblins, and orcs/half-orcs, as well as a few
tieflings, humans, and dragonborn. There are many other races that have migrated to the
Dynasty, however, and all are welcomed into the light of the Luxon.

Across Xhorhas there are many tribes of various races.  Goliaths may be found in the mountains
of the Ashkeeper Peaks, for instance, or lizardfolk in the Brokenveil Marsh.  The Iothia
Moorland to the south of the Kryn Dynasty has tribes that include humans, goblins and
orcs/half-ores, with the occasional aasimar or genasi. In southern Xhorhas, halflings inhabit
the Lotusden Greenwood, and dragonborn have built the settlements of Xarzith Kitril and Charis
following the destruction of the great floating city of Draconia a quarter century before.

On the Dynasty's western border, the vast Dwendalian Empire spans central Wildemount. The most
common races within the Empire are humans, dwarves, halflings, and elves/half-clves. Close to
the border between the two nations, there are settlements of gnomes in Hupperdook, ores in
Bladegarden, and dragonborn in Talonstadt.

East of Xhorhas, isolated by the Penumbra mountain range, lies a sparsely populated strip of
land known as Blightshore. This cursed land is warped by elemental energy, and is a safe haven
for outlaws, thieves, and smugglers of various races. Some inhabitants of Blightshore that died
rose again as Hollow Ones. This supernatural gift is described in Explorer's Guide to
Wildemount.

From more distant lands, tabaxi and tortles are native to the southwesterly Menagerie Coast of
Wildemount, and firbolgs to the northern Greying Wildlands. Automatons (warforged), created by
archmages in an era known as the Age of Arcanum, have recently been discovered from
excavations of ancient cities. The magical woodlands of Xhorhas may contain gateways to the
Feywild, through which fairies, harengon, satyr, or owlin could travel through.

RELIGION

The Luxon

Most inhabitants of the Kryn Dynasty worship the Luxon.  The Dynasty have uncovered several
Luxon beacons: large dodecahedron crystals that grant the power of potentiality, known as
dunamis, a school of magic that manifests as control over gravity and time.

Many followers of the Luxon bind their soul to the Luxon beacons, in an act known as
consecution. If they die within 100 miles of a beacon, their soul is ensnared by it, then
reborn in a random newborn, and they regain their memories as they age in their new body. Those
that repeat this cycle of rebirth eventually reach the status of Umavi, a perfect soul.

PRIME DEITIES

Worship of the Prime Deities is permitted within the Dynasty.  These deities are: Avandra, the
Change Bringer; Bahamut, the Platinum Dragon; Corellon, the Arch Heart; Erathis, the Law
Bearer; Ioun, the Knowing Mentor; Kord, the Storm Lord; Melora, the Wild Mother; Moradin, the
All-Hammer; Pelor, the Dawn Father; Raei, the Everlight; the Raven.  Queen, Matron of Death;
and Sehanine, the Moon Weaver.

BETRAYER GODS

Worship of the Betrayer Gods is forbidden, however there are cults who still do. These deities
are: Asmodeus, Lord of the Nine Hells; Bane, the Strife Emperor; Gruumsh, the Ruiner; Lolth,
the Spider Queen; Tharizdun, the Chained Oblivion; â€˜Tiamat, the Scaled Tyrant; Torog, the
Crawling King; Vecna, the Whispered One; and Zehir, the Cloaked Serpent.

